# traceability
## use cases
### tracing datasets generated by arithmetic
A researcher normalizes a data set by dividing through another data set (ex.: normalizing emissions by dividing through population). They can later inspect the data set to check which were the original data sets used in the normalization.
### tracing datasets generated by arithmetic, sharing edition
After one researcher does the normalization, they share the derived data set with another researcher. The other researcher can inspect the shared dataset to check which were the original datasets used in the normalization. They can then retrieve the original datasets if they are available to them.
### tracing data points in datasets generated by mix & match
A researcher combines several datasets by combining multiple datasets by appending (e.g. temporal), summation (e.g. sectoral), interpolation, extrapolation, downscaling and upscaling, like using the composite source generator.
They can later inspect the dataset and extract the original data sets and arithmetic used for each individual data point.
* Note that if tracing of data points is available, uncertainties of the original data sets can be propagated through the calculation, including correlations.
### tracing data points in datasets generated by mix & match, sharing edition
After one researcher uses the composite source generated and shares the generated dataset, another researcher can load the generated dataset and inspect the provenance of each individual data point.
